= TopFIND 4.1
TopFIND is the Termini oriented protein Function Inferred Database (TopFIND) is an integrated knowledgebase focused on protein termini, their formation by proteases and functional implications. It contains information about the processing and the processing state of proteins and functional implications thereof derived from research literature, contributions by the scientific community and biological databases.


=== PREREQUISITES:
* In order to install the compatible mysql2 gem, ensure that MySQL 5.7 is installed or there will be issues
* Topfind requires R to be installed, as it uses the rserve-client gem to talk to it
* Topfind also requires graphviz to be installed. Ensure that it is in the PATH (i.e. "dot" is available from command line)

=== INSTALLATION:

======  Installing Ruby
* Install RVM to handle different versions of Ruby on your machine (https://rvm.io/)
* Install Ruby version 2.2.3 and set it as the version in use

    rvm install 2.2.3

    rvm use 2.2.3

*  Navigate to the topfind4.1 directory and install the proper gems using <tt>bundle install</tt>

====== Database creation + initialization
* Download the compressed mysql dump from clipserve.clip.ubc.ca/topfind/download
* Modify the config/database.yml file to fit your own parameters, as shown in the example file
* Create the required databases using
    rake db:create
* Using the following series of commands, fill the databases with the downloaded dump file
    mysql -u root -p
    use topfind_development_4_1
    source DUMPFILEPATH.sql
    use topfind_development_4_1_test
    source DUMPFILEPATH.sql
    quit;
    
====== Running the application
    
* While within the topfind4.1 directory, start the application using <tt>rails server</tt>
* Navigate to http://localhost:3000/home/index to see the application

====== How to run the test suite
* SHAMS * how does this work? do you need an empty db to start with?

====== Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

====== Deployment instructions

====== TODO
ESSENTIALS
* protein pages --> DOMAINS AND FEATURES plot 1) Axis to numbers (now is seconds or so, maybe remove it?) and 2) mouse-overevents to show and link to evidence?
* user handling
- --> https://github.com/NoamB/sorcery/blob/master/README.md - looks good?

* What's "belongs_to :traceable, :polymorphic => true" in inhibition2evidences ? Why isn't it in cleavage2evidences?
* Evidence source (DB) in protein page n- and c-termini link back to the old topfind
* general esthetics
* ? symbols for TopFINDer and PathFINDer (and elsehwere?)

EXTRAS
* EXPORT for n-terms, c-terms, and cleavages in ProteinPages
* CSV exports for protein list (index)
* link evidences back to their n- and c-termini? And cleavages and inhibitions?


Please feel free to use a different markup language if you do not plan to run
<tt>rake doc:app</tt>.
